---
layout: post
title: "Trunc – I did it my way"
date: "2016-03-08 16:03:37 +0100"
---

I don't like the `truncate` command line tool. I use it way to often to want to type the flags. And I have never, ever used it for anything but to completely truncate a file.

So I hacked up my own little `trunc`-func.

{%highlight bash%}

    #!/bin/bash
    function delete {
        printf "" > $1
        echo "Truncated $1"
    }

    function keep {
        echo "File untouched"
    }

    if [ -z "$1" ]; then
        echo "No file specified"
        exit
    fi
    read -n1 -p "Truncate file? [yN]" delete
    printf "\n"
    case $delete in
        y|Y) delete $1 ;;
        *) keep ;;
    esac

{%endhighlight%}

Example:

{%highlight bash%}
    $ cat afile.code
    Code
    And other stuff
    $ trunc afile.code
    Truncate file? [yN]<press y>
    Truncated afile.code
    $ cat afile.code
    $ 
{%endhighlight%}

And just to check, here's a little performance test. I create a *huge* file and then truncate it.

{%highlight bash%}
    $ cat /dev/random > tmp&
    [1] 85326
    <let this run for a while>
    $ kill 85326
    [1]  + 85326 terminated  cat /dev/random > tmp
    $ ls -l tmp
    -rw-r--r--  1 hjort  staff   7.5G Mar  8 16:43 tmp
    $ date ; wc tmp ; date
    Tue Mar  8 16:46:28 CET 2016
     31369335 243126635 8031531008 tmp
    Tue Mar  8 16:47:44 CET 2016
{$endhighlight%}

So we have a 7.5 GB file here. That's about as big as anything I ever touch in my file system at once. It took over a minute to do a wourd count in it. Let's make sure it doesn't take forever to truncate. I will print the date, truncate, hit `y` quick, and the print hte date again.

{%highlight bash%}
    $ date ; trunc tmp ; date
    Tue Mar  8 16:49:12 CET 2016
    Truncate file? [yN]y
    Truncated tmp
    Tue Mar  8 16:49:13 CET 2016
{%endhighlight%}

It took about a second, including me hitting a key. I'd say that's good enough.

Continous development (or not) on [GitHub][github].

[github]: https://github.com/hjorthjort/Scripts
