---
layout: post
title: "The Reverse Dunning--Krueger-effect"
---

A recurring experience while voyaging from freshman to soon-to-be graduate, a
journey of over 5 years through the domains of computer science and mathematics,
has been that of discovering the limits of knowledge. My own knowledge, mostly,
about how complex many "simple" matters really are, the impossibility of
learning everything in a field within a lifetime. But also the limits of
knowledge of others, more experienced practicioners, both in industry and
academia. That is not to say that those with years of experience aren't skilled
or brilliant. It's just that, when I see them nod their heads at terms like
"unification" and "profunctior", and subsequently go to look the word up on
Wikipedia only to find an incomprehensible mess of other concepts that sound as
inscrutable to me, I assume that they know this concept well enough to use it,
implement it, even teach it. But what I often find is that rather than being
intimately familiar with words they are nodding at, or even words they happily
use in papers or code comments or presentations, they just know enough to know
its relevance -- they don't need to know exactly how unification works, it's
history or its pitfalls, they just know it's something others know very well,
that does what they need. It's like someone using an atomic clock because it
gives them precice time keeping, without knowing the first thing about the
quantom concepts that make such a clock tick, wheras I, seeing the nods at the
phrase "atomic clock", assume that everyone could have written a paper or two on
them.

It's like a reverse Dunning-Krueger effect, similar to Imposter syndrome -- I
assume that everyone else's conversations reveal deep knowledge by only touching
upon concepts they have fully grokked. In reality, most conversations will
invoke concepts one has only fleeting familiarity with.

The beauty of the lesson is of course that to learn *enough* is more attainable
than learning fully. And the more you learn, the easier it becomes to get a
good-enough conception of the complex topics that were once dreaded as the
pinncales of speicialized knowledge.
